Good morning.
It's amazing.
If you had asked me a
year and a half ago,
would I be on stage talking to a
bunch of Apple developers at WWDC,
I thought you would have been crazy.
But it's here,
and I'm overwhelmed but excited.
I've had a wonderful
time actually attending,
talking to a lot of people,
doing a lot of great things on the Mac,
and I think it's fantastic that it's
finally materialized on Intel hardware.
In fact,
it wasn't until about a year and a half
ago that I had first walked into an
Apple retail store for the first time.
And I have to tell you, I'm a convert.
So when I was at--
So when we came up with
the topic for performance
optimization for Intel-based Macs,
I took a lot of time to think
about exactly what that meant.
There's a lot of different
avenues that that can take,
top to bottom,
from algorithms to implementation
to instruction set,
down to the actual hardware and
how the hardware architecture
is actually implemented.
And I thought, well, first of all,
we should focus on things that are
unique to Intel versus what's to Mac.
So that would rule out
things like algorithms.
Most of those are going to be
common across both architectures.
And I thought that, well,
I could talk about the
hardware and the architecture,
but there's another talk that
actually talks about the architecture.
Plus, I don't think that you actually
get the bang for the buck
if you look that low level.
The first part is you have
to look at algorithms,
then look at implementation,
then you get down to the hardware
and the actual architecture and
tuning for the architecture.
So I wanted to pick someplace in between.
And one of the unique places where
you can get one of the biggest bangs
for the buck is actually looking
at your AltaVec implementation
and converting that to SSE.
So that's really what we're
going to focus on today,
is really demonstrating the steps
to optimizing something that's
already been well thought out
of in terms of the algorithm,
has already been implemented in AlteVec,
and really looking at the steps
of what do we need to do to get to
SSC quickly and gain the performance
from the SSC implementation.
I'll highlight, hopefully mostly,
similarities, because if you look at
the instruction set,
there's a lot of overlap.
It's almost straightforward,
one-for-one implementation,
with a few differences.
And then, you know,
GCC has been optimized for the
PowerPC for a very long time.
Apple's done a great job
for tuning for PowerPC.
And it's only been a year,
year and a half,
that we've actually looked
at the Intel processor.
And so that's where the
low-level architecture comes in.
And the experience from the
Intel compiler group at Intel in terms
of optimizing for our architecture.
So we'll look at, you know,
what are the benefits of,
in this particular case,
of using the Intel compiler on
this particular application.
So we're going to introduce Noble Apes.
If you were here at WWDC last year,
I know that it was a topic of using
Shark and how to do optimization.
In that presentation,
they started out with a
scalar implementation,
converted that to AlteVac,
got significant speedups,
and then actually focused
on optimizing that.
So I thought that would be a great
place to start because the application's
already been optimized for PowerPC.
It's already gone through the
implementation to AlteVac.
It's been optimized for AlteVac.
We'll take that as a starting base.
And now we get into something
that's more unique to Intel,
which would be the SSE or the
Streaming SIMD instruction
or extension instructions.
So we'll translate that for Noble Apes.
We'll look at the performance,
and then we'll apply the Intel compiler
and then close with questions at the end.
So what is Noble Apes?
Noble Apes is a very simple
application that simulates a bunch
of apes running around an island.
There's one particular ape
that has a view of his terrain.
That happens to be the one
that's actually with the red dot.
And when I get into the demonstration,
I'll point it out a little bit more.
And then the AlteVec part is
actually focused on the brain
of the ape as it's thinking,
as it goes into its sleep cycle,
as it wakes up, as it eats,
as it wanders around during the day.
And then we measure how many thoughts
or how many calculations we're
doing per second for that ape to
actually think about what it's doing.
And this is an application that ships
with the Chud tools in order to be
able to use with Shark and follow along
with the tutorial that goes with that.
It's also multithreaded.
So that was another thing that
I didn't really feel like we needed to
talk about in terms of optimization.
Even though Intel has multi-core,
Apple Mac has had had multi-core
for a long time as well,
and so that's not something that
we were going to necessarily cover.
But it's great for this
particular application.
So let me go ahead and switch to
Noble Apes just to give you a little
preview of what it looks like.
OK.
So see if I can zoom in
on this a little bit,
if that helps.
OK.
So up here in this corner,
you can see that the-- oops,
my mouse is moving as I move
along-- that the daytime,
nighttime is changing.
The apes are wandering around the screen.
This is the particular ape that we're
actually looking at that happens
to be wandering around the screen.
This is the terrain view that
that particular ape is looking at.
And these are the thoughts that the ape,
or actually what the brain is
looking like as it's wandering
around this particular island.
And this is what we're looking at.
So we have op thoughts per second.
Right now, we're at about 1,300 or so
for the scalar implementation.
There was also a vectorized
implementation that got a
significant improvement.
We're up to-- over 3,000 op thoughts.
There's a vectorized optimized version,
which gets even more.
We're up around 48, 49, 5,000 timeframe.
And then it's also threaded.
So I thought this was a good
application to start with.
It kind of covered a lot of the ideas
for general optimization techniques.
It had multi-threading in it,
was already AlteVec,
and then I would take a look at it
and see what we could do from an
Intel perspective for optimizing
this particular application.
[Transcript missing]
So a real quick brief
overview of what SSC means.
It's the streaming SIMD instructions
or extensions for the Intel processor.
We started out with the
multimedia extensions,
which was focused on 64-bit
versions for integers.
We added SSC,
which was the first incantation
of the SSC instructions,
which was focused on single precision
floating point instruction set.
SSC2 went back and added the 64-bit
integer versions that were similar
to the MMX version but were actually
implemented in the 128-bit registers.
And then SSC3 added some additional
complex math and some horizontal
add/subtract instructions,
a very much smaller delta.
All three of these instruction
sets are supported on the
Intel Mac-based processors today.
So as I was going through the porting,
I thought, well,
maybe it's good to put together a little
bit of a recipe of what I did in terms
of actually porting the application.
The first one was I wanted to make sure
that we supported universal binaries.
We've already done all the work,
or Apple has already done all the work,
to implement the AlteVec version.
There's still a lot of platforms out
there that are going to be PowerPC-based.
So we definitely don't want
to take that away from them.
So we want to make sure that
we support universal binaries.
Then we really need to look at the
data structures and the data and
modify the types that are being
used between AlteVec and SSC.
Then it was fairly straightforward for,
I would say,
almost 90% of the instructions
to go through and just implement
or transcribe the one-to-one
correspondence between the AlteVec
instruction to the SSC instruction.
There's a few instructions
that we don't support.
We don't support on a one-to-one basis,
but with a combination of two, three,
or four instructions,
you can achieve the same thing.
It's pretty much of a recipe
type of implementation.
There's really not a great
alternative unless you can modify
your algorithm to avoid it.
So there are some just very
standard ones that you just go in
and replace with the single one.
And then I would say there
is nonstandard combinations,
things that use
instructions like permute,
some of the multiplies.
There are some just very standard
ones that you just go in and
replace with the single one.
And then I would say there
is nonstandard combinations,
things that use
instructions like permute,
some of the multiplies.
So there's a little bit
more harder part to it.
Not all of the data type
variants are supported,
so you start having to think about
what is your precision requirements?
Why did you do the algorithm
the way that you did?
So there's a little bit
more thinking to it.
And then actually looking to see how
you can optimize the implementation to
take advantage of the SSC instructions.
So the AlteVec implementation was done.
They looked at the set of
best instructions to use.
And the same is true for SSC.
You can look at the full set and see
if there's an alternative approach
that you might be able to take
better advantage on SSC that you
might not have done with AlteVec.
And then we'll apply the Intel compiler
and see what the speedup is.
So the first step was really just to go
into the project and flip the switch from
PowerPC on the architecture type to I386.
Try compiling it.
You'll get a lot of errors.
Wherever there's an
alt-devec instruction,
you're certainly going to get an error.
And go in there and actually weed
out that part or partition that
part into conditional compilation
by using the standard defines
that the compiler supports.
So on alt-devec or on the PowerPC side,
the alt-defec define is automatically
enabled by the compiler.
On Intel compiler and
GCC running on I386,
SSC and SSC2 are automatically defined.
SS3 is turned off by default,
but you can easily turn it on.
All of the Intel-based Macs support SS3.
From the laptop on up.
And so let's go ahead and just kind
of show what we actually did there.
Let me take this back out of zoom mode.
I have a lot of code that's in here,
but we'll go up to the first
vectorized implementation.
start at the beginning.
Now one of the things that I wanted to
do as part of partitioning was to make
sure that I kept as much common code
common between the two implementations.
There's no sense just
partitioning the full function,
because there's a lot of C code,
setup code at the beginning, prolog,
epilog at the beginning that was common
that we didn't need to comment out,
and if you made changes to one,
then you'd have to remember
to make changes to the other.
Here's the beginning of the function
for the scalar implementation.
Let's go ahead and search through for...
The vector.
Okay.
And so here's the vector implementation.
We have some initial declarations, okay,
that we kept exactly the same.
There's one instruction here that we had
to modify for initializing the vector.
You'll notice that I'm actually using
the data type declared here using
the Accelerate Framework data type.
And so I decided to just partition
out these two into the implementation
for initializing the variable.
But for the rest of this function,
a lot of this setup code at the beginning
is just straight standard C code.
It's all within the function itself.
Didn't have to do anything different
until we got to the alt-vect section.
In the original code,
they had commented out
the scalar implementation,
so you could see what that
scalar loop would look like.
But then immediately,
we start getting into these
vect unsigned char declarations.
A bunch of more declarations
and initialization.
So I just went to the beginning of
where I saw all the errors to begin
with for this routine and put an
ifdef around the full block of code.
Cut and pasted that so I would
have a reference to go through.
Let me scan down here.
So this is all the AlteVec code.
We get down there some debug.
And now we get into SSC.
So I ended up just cutting
and pasting the original code.
So that I could use that as the template
to start my Alphabet implementation.
So if we go back to the slides.
So the next step after having done
that was to really start looking
at the data types and modifying
them to fit the Intel architecture.
There's three basic
intrinsic data types to SSC.
That's 128-bit,
which is an integer-based.
It doesn't matter whether
it's a vector of char,
shorts, ints, longs.
It's all the same.
It's just a vector of integers,
and that's the way the
instructions look at them.
There is a M128,
which was the original SSC data type,
which was a vector of four floats,
and then an M128d.
So it's underscore, underscore,
M128d for a vector of doubles.
Now, you could stick with those data
types and actually just replace the
vector unsigned int or unsigned char
declarations that were in the AltaVec.
But one of the problems that you
have if you use those particular
data types is that you can lose track
of exactly what your variable type is
and what you're actually operating on.
So one of the recommendations is
to actually use the AlteVec--or
the Accelerate framework
and their vector types,
because they've already been type-deafed
for the Intel SSE data types.
And it also helps support
the readability of the code.
One of the other things that
you'll run into is the fact that
the SSE instructions are C-style.
That means that no matter
what variables you give,
as long as they're M128s,
the functions--you have to specify
exactly what the function is going
to operate on within that vector.
For example, here,
this is a compare-equal extended
packed integer of 8 bits.
So it's no longer a C++ style where
you could just give it the data type,
the arguments will be over--or
the functions will be overloaded,
take those--the arguments to the
functions and know exactly which
function to actually implement.
So that was the next step,
was really just to go through
and modify the data types.
And so here you can see we
have vector-unsigned chars.
We just went and basically
declared this table.
In this particular case,
it was a table of M128Is.
It was a lookup table.
It didn't seem like it was necessary to
specify exactly what their data type.
This really wasn't being used in
any of the particular calculations.
But then I have a special
initializer that allows me to
set all of the vector types,
all of the values within the vector
to the same value using a set1,
extended, packed, integer 8 instruction.
And that's the equivalent to
the initialization that we see
with the vector-unsigned char.
Did that for a couple of lookup tables.
Here, there were a couple of
constants that were defined,
which, because you would have to,
in all of the functions,
actually cast them to M28s if
I defined them differently,
I decided to also keep
these as M128s as well,
just because I'm not writing to them.
They're going to be constant throughout,
and I knew exactly how they
were going to be operated on.
There was no sense actually casting them.
There were a couple of constants
that actually get generated
on the fly in the AlteVec,
but in this case I used constants and
declared them up front so that we would
load them from cache when we needed them.
It was cheaper to load them from
cache than to actually try to
generate the data on the fly.
Keep going down through the routine.
And now we start getting
into the inner loop.
Okay,
and this is where I just took exactly
what the AltaVec instruction said.
If it said vector signed short,
I replaced it with the Accelerate
Framework data type vector signed in 16.
And in fact,
if you were actually implementing
this between a PowerPC with
AlteVec and the Intel architecture,
you could actually move these
declarations out such that
you would have one set of
declarations for both architectures.
You wouldn't need to separate them
out in the if-def between the two,
AlteVec versus SSC.
Make the code a little bit shorter.
Puts all that stuff in a common area,
and you're not rewriting the code.
or if you make a change in one,
you don't have to modify it in the other.
And so that was, you know,
for all of the declarations,
was very straightforward
to actually implement.
There was just a few cases where
I decided to go ahead and use the
M128 because of what it appeared
to be more applicable for.
In this particular case,
this happened to be differences between
the brain versus the old brain settings.
And so it was actually a bit--a string of
bits that you actually compared against,
and so I kept it as an M128i.
Let's go ahead and switch back.
So after we had the data types
all declared and transferred and
got rid of all of those warnings,
then I looked at all of the
instructions that were in the
AlteVec and did the transcribe from
one instruction to the other one.
It's just a one-for-one.
There's a significant overlap.
You'll find that the modulo, integer,
add,
subtracts are fairly straightforward.
Pretty much all of the
compare instructions,
the packs, unpacks, integer,
floating point conversions are all there.
Floating point operations,
pretty straightforward.
There's a little bit less
limited in terms of the overlap
in the min/max instructions.
So if you look at it,
we're not quite as orthogonal in terms
of the data types that we support.
But in any case,
all of those were pretty much
a one-to-one translation.
Again, the SSE intrinsic instructions
have to be data type aware,
so you actually have to understand
essentially what the data type
that you're operating on to
the end of the instruction.
So let's go ahead and look at a
couple of those instructions as well.
We switch back.
Okay,
so some of the first instructions that
we actually run into are these Vector
Merge High and Vector Merge Lows.
Again, we do the exact same thing,
only now instead of using
the Merge High and Merge Low,
we're using the Unpack
High and Unpack Low.
I'm just casting the value
here because if I didn't,
I would get a bunch of warnings
about vector signed int 16 values not
knowing how to convert that to an M128.
So I just go ahead and do it so
that if you actually--you know,
in my code,
I like to get rid of all the warnings
that I possibly can so that if this is
something that I know that I need to do,
I just go ahead and do the casting.
So we had a whole series of unpacks.
It was very straightforward.
We came down to the vector adds.
Okay.
Again, a series of two adds together.
Exactly the same thing.
We have the two adds together.
One-to-one correspondence.
Again.
So it's a very straightforward
translation up to this point.
Even these particular unpacks
And these subtracts,
still again very straightforward,
up until we get to the vec-multi or
the multiply-even and multiply-odd.
So that's where we ran into the first
difference that was not really a
one-to-one translation between the two.
And so that's the first one where we hit
where it's not really a non-standard one.
But the standard translations,
we also hit a little bit
further down in the code,
which I'll show you.
And one of them is the vector select,
which is essentially the
implementation is here in AltaVec.
It's just a straight vector select, A, B,
and C, for the C, B, and the mask,
on which you want to select
out of the two registers,
and you're just picking
the bits between each one.
The implementation here for SSE is
just doing an and not and an and,
and then or-ing those values together.
A great resource for migrating AltaVec
to SSE is actually in Apple's own
documentation on this translation.
They have a lot of these very
standard types of translations
between AltaVec and SSE.
So here's basically a graphical display.
You see that the C variable
has some 1s and 0s.
Those are just the selector values.
In this particular case,
we just represent them as 0, 1,
but they would actually be
8-bit values or 16-bit values,
depending on the input.
And here we have the same
implementation in SSE.
We're doing the AND, the AND NOT,
and then OR-ing the two to
get basically the same result
that you get from the SELECT.
So let me go ahead and just show
you that instruction real quick.
Down here.
Okay,
so here's the VEX Select instruction,
taking the three arguments.
Again, we have our AND NOT with
our AND instruction.
And then we're ORing them together.
So that's just a, you know,
straight recipe formula implementation
for that particular instruction.
But now I'm going to go back to
the non-standard implementation,
which is using the mole-high and
the mole-even and the mole-odd.
Which is right here.
Okay.
So let's go back to the slides again.
So this is really the hardest
part of the non-standard part
of translating AltaVec to SSE.
There are some integer
multiplications that have limited
support for the data type.
So you have to look at
what your precisions are.
You may have to scale to support the
precision that you're looking for.
The PERMUTE instruction is a very
significant instruction that's
supported on AltaVec that is not
currently supported on Intel processors.
And you really have to implement a
series of packs and unpacks and shuffles
in order to be able to get basically
the same equivalent implementation
to the PERMUTE instruction.
Then there's some also
miscellaneous instructions that
are non-standard between the two
that make it a little bit tougher.
And that's the hard part where you
have to actually think about the
algorithm that you might implement.
And then there's also some unique
instructions that you might take
advantage of for Intel that you might
not actually have on the AltaVec that'll
get you some improvement as well.
So here's the MUL-E and the MUL-ODD,
or even and odd.
And essentially,
they multiply the two vectors.
In the case of the even,
you take the even
vector input and you come up in this
case it's a 16-bit implementation you
end up with a multiplication of the
two 16-bit values for a 32-bit value
and you get them in an all odds or all
even vector and this is very different
from the way the intel style works in
that we tend to always do everything
in order so you get all of the vectors
zero through seven if you happen to
be doing this particular operation
instead of the even and odds but we
take it in the upper half and lower half
So here's the MOL low.
And this is a case where we
actually do the same multiplication,
but we take the lower 16 bits.
And we put that in a vector.
And if we do that to the high,
then we get the upper
16 bits in the high.
If we unpack those together,
then we get the 32-bit values.
So we do an unpack
high and an unpack low,
and we can get the 32-bit values.
But they're still in the same
vector order that they originally
were in the original vectors.
So we're still going from, in this case,
0 to 4, or 0 to 3, and then from 4 to 7
in terms of the vector,
which is very different
than the MOL even and odd.
So let's go ahead and
switch back to the code.
So here is a case where we implemented
the mole high and mole low,
and the high unpack and the low unpack,
and this basically gives
us our 32-bit values.
If we wanted to model
the AltaVec exactly,
one-for-one instruction,
we would have to do a further
unpack of these instructions
in order to get all the evens
together and all the odds together.
But when we actually
looked at the algorithm,
it turned out that further
down in the algorithm,
after they did a bunch of calculations,
they ended up doing that same
packing and unpacking in the result.
So right here,
they ended up doing the merge at the
end between the high and the low to get
them back into vector order from the
original straight linear vector sequence.
So we decided that instead of
trying to mirror the odd and even,
we would go ahead and just
leave them in our particular
format and wait to the end.
And then if we still needed to do that,
we would do that at the end,
and it turned out that we actually
could avoid a couple of instructions
by not having to do that.
[Transcript missing]
So that was pretty much
the full implementation.
It actually vectorized very
well following the standard
implementation that we had for AlteVec.
But there were some additional
things that we could do.
One was we didn't have to do
the additional unpacking on
the unpacks in order to get it
into the even and odd order,
then to further have to go
back and do packs to get it
back into the normal sequence.
And so we could take advantage of
that SSC feature and avoid having to
do that extra packing and unpacking.
We also looked at re-evaluating
the precision requirements.
A lot of this stuff is done in 16-bit,
goes back to 32-bit.
It's possible that maybe
in this particular case the
precision isn't quite necessary.
You could actually keep it all in 16-bit.
But to be compatible with
the implementation as it was,
and to be fair in terms of the
comparison between the two,
we decided to keep it
at 32-bit precision.
There are a couple other things that you
have to be aware of that we looked at.
Actually, in this particular case was
looked at memory alignment,
watch for cache line splits,
because when you're loading
data and storing data,
you have to be careful of that
on the Intel architecture.
There was no floating point,
but if you were doing floating point,
you would want to make sure that you
looked at or had caution for denormals.
On the Intel architecture,
denormals are enabled by default.
On PowerPC, they are disabled.
And then we looked at
partial register stalls.
It turned out there was no
partial register stalls in
this particular application.
And then I already showed you that
we actually generated--instead of
generating constants on the fly,
we actually declared them and
initialized them up front.
But there was an additional instruction
that we could take advantage of that,
once we looked at the algorithm,
to actually improve the performance
of this particular sample app.
And that was the packed fused
multiply add instruction.
And what that does is basically
takes the two 16-bit values,
multiplies them to get a 32-bit result,
and then adds it to its neighbor.
And it turned out that's
exactly what this application
was doing towards the end.
So let me go ahead and show you
that particular piece of code.
So here, we did all our multiply, even,
and odds--in our case, high and lows.
But down here, we had this addition.
Okay, that happened to take the
result of that multiplication.
For the two.
And so what we decided to do was
instead of going through all of
these multiplies and unpacks,
we were able to combine that
into the multiply-add--the
fuse multiply-add instruction.
We were able to get rid of the unpacks.
Bring it down here to the implementation.
We're actually in the
optimized version now.
So here's the equivalent that
we were able to do instead.
Okay, so we did a couple of unpacks,
but now we did the multiply and the add,
and we got the 32-bit
value that we wanted,
plus we were able to complete
the addition that we needed to do
in the instruction further down.
So we replaced all of those mole-highs
and mole-lows with the multiply-add
on all four implementations here.
And then down here at the bottom,
we no longer had to do the addition.
All we're doing is the
subtraction that was actually
implemented in the original code,
which is up here.
So originally,
we had this shift-right arithmetic,
the subtraction, and the add.
Now we just had the shift
and the subtraction.
We've already done the addition
in the multiplication part,
in the multiply-add instruction.
And it gave it to us in 32-bit values.
Once we made that optimization,
then we were doing pretty well
in terms of the performance.
Let me go ahead and switch back.
And so I'm going to
bring up Justin Landon,
my colleague,
who will go through the Intel compiler.
He'll talk about the actual
performance that we got for
this implementation of Noble 8s.
Thank you, Phil.
Now that Phil's done all the
hard work of translating this
application over to use SSE,
let's take a look at what the
performance of the application is.
This is Noble Ape,
and this was built with a GCC compiler
that ships with Xcode 2.3.
And as you can see,
we have three different
computation modes.
We have a Scalar, a Vector,
and a Vector Optimize.
What we're comparing here is G5 iMac
versus the 2.0 GHz Intel Core Duo iMac.
And we basically have the three-- Scalar,
Vector, and Vector Optimize.
And these are the ape thoughts per second
that we're seeing on each platform.
As you can see,
we're doing quite well on the Scalar.
We're doing pretty good with the Vector,
which is just basically
a Vector-optimized-- or
not an optimized version,
but just a scale-- a Vector
implementation of the Scalar version.
And then we have the
Vector-optimized version,
which, you know,
we take math tricks and try to
optimize as much as possible.
As you can see, we're not doing so great
on the last case there.
But fear not.
Before we take a look at the algorithm
and try to change things around,
we'll try to use the
Intel compiler to see if that
can improve performance for us.
So if we can switch over
to the demo machine.
machine.
So what I'm going to show here
is the ease in which you can use
the Intel compiler to recompile
your application and try to obtain
additional performance gains.
This is as simple as going to the target.
Going to the Rules section here.
And under the System C rule,
we can change the compiler.
We can just change it
to the Intel compiler.
It will ask me to make a copy,
and I can change it again here.
And now we're all set there.
The other thing that we need to take
a look at is we want to make sure that
we evoke certain optimization settings.
So I'm going to go
ahead and change those.
And you can see right now,
now that we've had the
Intel compiler selected,
we have the ability to set some
switches within the Intel compiler.
The biggest ones that we want to take
a look at here is we want to make sure
the optimization level is set to O3.
We also want to make sure that we have
inline function expansion turned on,
and OB2 is the highest setting for that.
And we also want to have the IP flag,
and this is a checkbox right here,
and this allows function
expansion within single files.
And that's all we're going to do.
So I'm going to go ahead and close that.
And I'm going to clean and build.
So we're going to go ahead and
let that build for a second.
And as you can see on the bottom,
you can tell that the Intel compiler
is being used because it says
"compile ICC." So you'll know that the
compiler is actually being invoked.
Now, if you're doing a universal build,
what will happen is the Intel part
of it will build the I native code,
and then it will use GCC to
build the PowerPC code.
So I'm going to go ahead and switch
the Vector Optimize mode here.
And as you can see,
we've gotten a substantial
speed-up just from doing that.
This is on the MacBook Pro laptop.
So if we switch back to the slide set,
This is now what we're seeing as
far as GCC versus ICC performance.
So as you can see in the
vector-optimized case,
we went somewhere around
8,800 apethots per second,
and we've increased that to
almost 12,000 apethots per second.
So that's given us a 34% performance
gain just by recompilation alone.
So there was no extra engineering
requirements or time investment
needed in order to get us
that extra performance gain.
We've also gotten a substantial
increase on the scalar and
vector portions as well.
So this is a pretty good case
for using the Intel compiler.
It's easy to use,
and you can get substantial
performance gains.
I'm going to go back to this slide
so we can take a look at how we're
going to look at the G5 comparison.
So now if we're comparing against
the previous iMac model using the G5,
we're about 19% better on
the vector-optimized case.
So this is indeed showing that
we can translate the code over
to use our SC instruction set,
and at the same time get
better performing code.
I'm going to go back to the demo
and show you one more optimization
switch that can easily be thrown.
So if we go back to the target
here and make sure that we have
the Intel compiler selected,
If we scroll all the way to
the bottom--looks like it's
already been set--this additional
flag that you can set is IPO.
And this is basically set in
the additional C options flag.
And what this does is it allows inline
expansion within multiple files.
So this will give you
increased performance.
So since I already built it with that,
there won't be really, really need,
but we'll do a clean anyways.
While it's building,
we'll go back to the slide deck here.
So now that I've thrown the IPO switch,
this is what we were
seeing on the 2 GHz iMac.
So as you can see,
I have the three columns here,
the first one being GCC.
The second column there is what
we just compiled with the O3 and
OB2 switch and the IP switch.
And then the last one
is where we have the O3,
OB2, and IPO.
And as you can see,
we've gained an additional 6%
just from throwing that switch.
So that really is a really simple way to
get additional performance within your
application with minimal time investment.
Here again, we're comparing against the
previous iMac model using the G5.
And as you can see, now we're 24% better.
So this is a clear indication that,
you know, with a little bit of time
and using the Intel tools,
you can really get good performance
gains out of your applications.
So, in summary, you basically want to
use care in translating.
You don't want to really
translate verbatim.
Going one-to-one will work sometimes,
but you want to take some thought
and care into how you're exactly
translating your application over
to use the Intel instruction sets.
You may want to re-architect the data.
You want to try to avoid using the
permute since we don't have a direct
analogous instruction that uses that.
And sometimes just reorienting the data
to use our instruction set can save
you some overhead of data shuffling.
We highly recommend using the
ADC Reference Guide that's available
online on the Apple website.
That's very helpful,
and they have some good tips and tricks
in there to help you translate your code.
And utilize the Intel compiler.
It's really easy to use.
You let the compiler do the work,
and there's no time
investment on your part.